A Drowsiness / Eye_Status(Open?Closed) System built using Python, OpenCV With this intermediate-level Python project, We made a drowsiness detecting device. A countless number of people drive on the highway day and night. Taxi drivers, bus drivers, truck drivers and people traveling long-distance suffer from lack of sleep. Due to which it becomes very dangerous to drive when feeling sleepy. The majority of accidents happen due to the drowsiness of the driver. So, to prevent these accidents we will build a system using Python, OpenCV, and Keras which will alert the driver when he feels sleepy.Drowsiness detection is a safety technology that can prevent accidents that are caused by drivers who fell asleep while driving. The objective of this intermediate Python project is to build a drowsiness detection system that will detect that a person’s eyes are closed for a few seconds. This system will alert the driver when drowsiness is detected.

Our Project will proceed in these steps :

Step 1 – Take image as input from a camera. Step 2 – Detect the face in the image and create a Region of Interest (ROI). Step 3 – Detect the eyes from ROI and feed it to the classifier. Step 4 – Classifier will categorize whether eyes are open or closed. Step 5 – Calculate score to check whether the person is drowsy.

Designed a CNN Eye-cascade Classifier to classify the Eye-Pupil data-sets with a test accuracy of more than 90%. - Implemented a system which detects Drowsiness / Sleepy Eyes of person and alerts with emergency alarm until eyes are completely opened till the Eye-Threshold Value reaches <15 . - Implemented Manual Threshold Slider for light / brightness intensity to produce efficient detection of above 95% .
